<!--
Title: North American QSO Party, SSB
Created: 19 January 2005 - 11:05 am
Modified: 22 January 2005 - 9:15 am
Tags: radio
-->

Last Saturday, 1800Z Jan. 15 to 0600Z Jan. 16, some friends and I got a chance to participate in the SSB portion of the North American QSO Party. Thanks goes out to Aaron Parker (KC7RSO) for setting things up and showing us the ropes.

In total, we had eight licensed operators (KE7AHG, KE7CJO, KC7WIL, KE7AHJ, KB5TSS, KC7RSO, KL9A, and VA3GEW) plus Sarah and Andrew. Exchanges were done as callsign, name, and location. We were W7UQ, Joe, Idaho. We ran for 12 hours and ended up with 374 QSOs for a total score of 38,147. Not too bad.

Rigs used were an Icom IC-746 that the club owns, and a Kenwood TS-2000 which belongs to Aaron. Antennas were a Hy-Gain Th7 Triband, a 40 meter Dipole, and an 80 meter Dipole

A transcript of various emails and message board posts related to the event follows.

> "First of all, this contest was not about the numbers. We came into this contest with the intent of having a multi 2 operation with two purposes:

> 1. For the new members of the University of Idaho ARC to be exposed to HF.
> 2. Get the older members of W7UQ active on HF.

> It worked! If you worked W7UQ in this contest, chances are you may have been the first contacts many of this crew has ever had. Thanks for your patience.

> The crew quickly picked up how the exchange went and overcame the intimidation of sitting in front of those HF rigs. Frank Mitchell (KE7AHG) opened the contest up with his first ever QSO with K9NS on 15 meters. After putting a few more log, Frank switched to 10 meters to drum up some numbers. We were hopeful that 10 meters would produce something more than 4 Qs, but that was not to be. Frank was joined by his girlfriend, Sarah Park, and they teamed up together on 20 meters while it was still slow. They make a great team, and I think Sarah has been convinced to get her license during the next testing session.

> Chris Jones (KE7CJO) arrived shortly after the contest started and sat down on 15 meters. After making his first ever QSO, he slugged them into the log with Aaron (KC7RSO) helping him at the controls. Good work, Chris. You did a great job.

> Another operator that made an appearance for his first time on HF was Joshua Werner (VA3GEW). Josh is also a new member to the W7UQ club, and he did a great job of searching around and grabbing those contacts.

> Jill Nieborsky (KC7WIL) not a new ham but a new member of the club, sat right down and went to work on 20 meters. Jill had some contesting experience while growing up and was ready to go. Jill and Sarah sat together for a couple of hours on 20 meters and did a great job. Later on in the contest, Jill's fiance, Andrew McConaghy sat in listening as Jill switched from search and pounce to running on 20 meters. Afterward while asking Jill if Andrew is going to get his license, she said, 'He better.' Great job guys.

> Andrew Gulbrandsen (KE7AHJ) made his HF debut on 15 meters and was immediately convinced to work harder on his code to get the upgrade. He did a great job of trolling the band and finding contacts. Good work and good luck on the upgrade, Andrew.

> Our club president, Kyle (KB5TSS) made his appearance later on in the afternoon and was joined by Jeff Spellmen. Jeff came up and watched us do field day last year and is almost convinced to get his license. Great work Mr. President for your efforts in contesting and promoting Ham Radio to your friends.

> Overall, we had a great time. Aaron (KC7RSO) and Chris (KL9A) stood by and served as contesting mentors. Even though we had very little op. time we were excited to see the insurgence of new contesters to the University of Idaho ARC. Be sure to watch for us in upcoming contests, and hold on to your hats because W7UQ will be hitting the bands hard for high rates and many Qs."

> Aaron Parker (KC7RSO)

------

> "Yeah, I must say I was extremely impressed with the all the people that showed up!

> Let's keep this level of enthusiasm up.  Remember you don't need to wait for a contest to get active on HF! You can always get on and listen, or round up an HF license holder and convince them to head to the shack and let you operate.  The real fun comes when you are working the world, not just USA and Canada."

> Chris Hurlbut (KL9A)

------

> "Really nice to see the 'new' amateurs get into the hobby. Good job."

> Bill Gillenwater (K3SV)

------

> "Aaron, please pass along congratulations to the whole crew at the University of Idaho ARC for a great job in their first NAQP contest!

> I hope this is only your first of many contest operations. See you on the bands."

> Mark Beckwith (N5OT)

------

> "From time to time, we have a good debate about how to get new people into contesting. Most of us have lots of ideas, but it is often tough to put them into action.

> One 3830 posting from NAQP SSB really caught my eye, because it reminded me of how I used to drag fellow college students into the shack at W4DFU (Univ of Florida) for HF & VHF contests in the early 80's.   

> Kudos to KC7RSO Aaron Parker for his efforts to get W7UQ - and a lot of new contesters - on the air. Give it a read and say thanks to those people who are not only contesting, but also trying to make sure we have more people to work in the future."

> <http://dayton.akorn.net/pipermail/3830/2005-January/100385.html>

> Jamie Dupree (NS3T)

------

> "Just in case you didn't see this. I ditto [in reference to the comment above] - well done."

> Scott Tuthill (K7ZO)