<!--
Title: Poetics, emotion in words
Created: 23 November 2004 - 2:11 pm
Modified: 20 December 2004 - 7:11 pm
Tags: writing
-->

If prose crafts a cognitive response in the reader, than poetry crafts an emotional one. Without emotion, poetry is meaningless, an empty hollow shell of words that may just as well be prose. Poetry's power lies in the fact that it can create that emotional response within the reader. Meter, line, rhyme, form, diction, all these devices are ones that establish a tonal context. Because they are the same devices that musicians use when building music, its almost as if poetry is a musical form, and music is very good at tapping emotion.

While I argue that poetry has to evoke an emotional response, some of the devices used to do so don't resonate with me. Rhyme, in particular, is way too forced for my taste. By using a rhyme scheme, you force you poetry into a shell, and within that shell there exists the potential to sacrifice meaning. It is because poetry operates so much more on an emotional level than a cognitive one that meaning becomes very important. When dealing with the cerebral you can afford to be vague and imprecise simply because you can draw on a world of context to eliminate that unclearness. However, the world of emotions is already an unclear one, and the wrong choice of words can send your reader dancing down a path you'd rather not have them follow. Rhyme can force you to choose one word over another simply because it fits the scheme you're using, regardless of whether or not it conveys the meaning you intend. Rhyme too often forces the poem instead of serving it.

A good example of a place where rhyme works because it serves the poem it's in is "[Harmonica][]". In my second to last stanza, the words 'in', 'again', and 'Then' all rhyme. "Draw in. / Note curls. / Falls down. / Rises again. / Long silence. / Then..." This rhyming serves to create tension, especially with the last line being a single word on its own. The reader is left with an expectation and a sense of frustration, because they want the rhyme to resolve or end and it doesn't. Instead, the resolution occurs in the final three lines, "Late night, / Talk loud, / Blues sound." There however, no rhyming words are used, and it's the jubilation created by a sense of accomplishment that resolves the emotional tension and thus solves the rhyme conflict.

That careful attention to choice of words, diction, is a hallmark of both my poetry and what I like to see in the poetry I read. In diction, poetry has a tremendous advantage over prose. Words that sound pompous or thesaurical (having to do with a thesaurus) in prose may fit perfectly in poetry. 'Defenestration' is a good example. It would never come up in conversation, but in Bill Watterson's "Noxious Nocturne" it is a perfect description of the monster's flight from Calvin's bedroom. That power to introduce the reader to a new language is one that few poets exploit. Poets are unique in that they sit on the edge of the world and watch it spin by them while doing nothing but observing. They don't guess and speculate like the scientists, and so they can talk about what really is, instead of what they want to be. It is poets who create new words and open their reader's eyes to a new understanding of the world around them.

Metaphor happens to be an excellent method through which new words can be created, simply because the drawing of connections between two objects serves to form new connections in the mind of the reader. In "[misguided metaphors][]", I turned words into caterpillars and let a piece of paper become the leaf they played upon. "fuzzy yellow caterpillar words / tumble down green leaf pages / groping desperately for the / meaning of brown twig lines". The entire poem ends up being a comment on not getting so sucked up into the joy of language that you forget that poetry without a message is pointless. "proud caterpillar words! // they want so much to please..." But highly descriptive language is not the be all and end all of poetry. While I love poetry that makes me rush to a dictionary to look up the meaning of a new word, poetry that fills pages with undefined words ends up reading like old alchemical text. Yes, it's a recipe, but one that will probably end up in disaster if you follow it.

Because it has those musical qualities of meter and tone, poetry should be read aloud. It's an oral art form. The original poems were ballads, and poetry naturally lends itself to musical accompaniment. While I have yet to write poetry with the express goal of putting it to music, "[Harmonica][]" does contain musical aspects. Its short, two-word lines mimic the inhalation and exhalation of harmonica playing, "Blow one. / Draw two. / Do dah. / Do dah. / Much sound. / No music." Plus, as I mentioned before, it's bluesy second to last stanza builds tension the same way that a harmonica riff does, "Draw in. / Note curls. / Falls down. / Rises again. / Long silence. / Then..." From a musical standpoint, the rhyme words are notes of tensions, the ones that don't rhyme are steppingstone notes, and the final resolution is postponed until the very end. There, the final three lines appear as a long drawn out bluesy wail that softly fades into the darkness, "Late night, / Talk loud, / Blues sound."

Physical shape, the way a poem looks on the page, is not something I really pay a whole lot of attention to. Instead, I tend to focus on the look of individual lines, and the final from seems to come nicely out of that. "[Blood Doll][]" is six lines because the task my group had set for me was the crafting of a tiny poem, not because I happen to like how the lines look on the page. They could be centered or right justified and the meaning would still come across just fine. "[Dear balloon][]" follows a short-short-short-short-long line scheme in its stanzas, because that's how the words worked out. Breaking a long line like, "The same dreams I share with, my father's father" would have truncated the idea that the line contains. While I admire the skill and time that's necessary to physically shape words into a form, I find myself more inclined to spend my time shaping my words into ideas that aren't restricted to a cookie cutter pattern.

In the end, it all comes back to emotion. Form, meter, line, rhyme, diction, these are all tools. There must be an emotional message that my poetry strives to convey; otherwise the poem itself is worthless. Evoke feeling the reader, even if it's as simple as a smile. That's enough. Someone's life was made a little bit brighter because of my words.



[Harmonica]: /ccs/harmonica "Frank Mitchell (Can't Count Sheep): Harmonica"

[misguided metaphors]: /ccs/misguidedmetaphors "Frank Mitchell (Can't Count Sheep): misguided metaphors"

[Blood Doll]: /ccs/blooddoll "Frank Mitchell (Can't Count Sheep): Blood Doll"

[Dear balloon]: /ccs/dearballoon "Frank Mitchell (Can't Count Sheep): Dear balloon"
